# PlasmaPy License prior to 2017 October 19

Copyright (c) 2015-2017, PlasmaPy Community. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
  notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
  notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
  documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

* Neither the name of PlasmaPy nor the names of its contributors may
  be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
  without specific prior written permission.

This software is provided by the copyright holders and contributors
"as is" and any express or implied warranties, including, but not
limited to, the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for
a particular purpose are disclaimed. In no event shall the copyright
holder or contributors be liable for any direct, indirect, incidental,
special, exemplary, or consequential damages (including, but not
limited to, procurement of substitute goods or services; loss of use,
data, or profits; or business interruption) however caused and on any
theory of liability, whether in contract, strict liability, or tort
(including negligence or otherwise) arising in any way out of the use
of this software, even if advised of the possibility of such damage.

# Notice

[PlasmaPy's
license](https://github.com/PlasmaPy/PlasmaPy/blob/master/LICENSE.md)
was [updated on 2017 October
19](https://github.com/PlasmaPy/PlasmaPy/pull/114) to include
protections against software patents from the [BSD+Patent
license](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSDplusPatent).  Updates
prior to 2017 October 19 remain available under [PlasmaPy's old
license](plasmapy-license-prior-to-2017-october-19).  Most
contributors to PlasmaPy [have
agreed](https://github.com/PlasmaPy/PlasmaPy/pull/114) to have
their contributions covered by the [new
license](https://github.com/PlasmaPy/PlasmaPy/blob/master/LICENSE.md).
Pull requests
[#63](https://github.com/PlasmaPy/PlasmaPy/pull/63),
[#77](https://github.com/PlasmaPy/PlasmaPy/pull/77),
[#107](https://github.com/PlasmaPy/PlasmaPy/pull/107), and
[#108](https://github.com/PlasmaPy/PlasmaPy/pull/108) are covered
solely by [PlasmaPy's old
license](plasmapy-license-prior-to-2017-october-19).
